{"chp":"Introduction"}

As humanity increasingly becomes reliant on smartphones and internet-of-things (IOT) devices for communication, the software industry pivots towards development of application centered on data transmission. These applications can be completely reliant on a consistent internet connection, acting clients receiving and transmitting information to their users. These clients typically serve purposes such as social media communication, content consumption, user account access etc.

This evolution in computing has implications for how software projects are planned, conducted and maintained. As the server becomes the predominant source of both information and computation, the software itself plays a diminishing role in delivering content to consumers. Deployment of software applications on mobile platforms requires publishing approval, as well as the consent of users for updates. For these reasons mobile applications must be heavily tested before deployment, which discourages the development of complex applications prone to errors (referred to as "hard-coded"). The software industry has instead moved towards developing simple applications (referred to as "soft-coded") that are flexible to server-driven changes and updates.

The data transmitted to these applications... A main feature of distributed systems is their ability to handle hardware and software heterogeneity, as information must travel digitally and physically across layers of applications, networks, and hardware. Heterogeneity manifests as differences in protocols, programming language features, and data formats. Heterogeneous systems must have the ability to transmit and parse information across layers, despite these differences.

Existing research predominantly evaluates data serialisation formats from a feature, performance, and efficiency perspective. While these aspects are quantifiable, measurable, and potentially motivate decisions for designing large-scale data transmission systems, they fail to illustrate the conditions that inform the choice of data format for the common software development team. As performance differences are negligible, these conditions are likely more abstract and extend beyond development into the organisational structures and division of responsibilities in the team and between levels of developers.

I contribute to this field with a proposal for a strongly-typed superset syntax for JSON data structures, similar to how the superset TypeScript languages provides typing of JavaScript data structures. The Type-Extensible Object Notation (TXON) data format developed for this proposal provides a syntax for type declarations and relational references in JSON data structures. As a superset of JSON this format is fully compatible with existing JSON parsers, as it conforms to the JSON specification. A validation layer evaluates the conformance of the data structure based on references to its type declarations, providing developers with feedback on where and why the transmitted data structure is invalid.

{"break":true}